- pongo2:best syntax, in general wise.
   - does not support dynamic extend
- quicktemplate: good performance wise.
   -  support dynamic extend.
   - ok sytax but still a bit much.
- jet
 - does not support dynamic extend


## feature of the template toolkit
Template should make it easy to:
- config override, which is a kind of "include with more readable condition"(in yaml file)
- dynamic base.html
- share template.
- load templates based on site configuration or api.

Understand template patterns on an OO way:
- dynamic base.html: every site design has it's own base.html(base.html override). In a way to implement dynamic extend(with one condition: site identifier)
- extends: a pattern of abstract method invoking implement method
- includes: invoke shared components(templates)
- override config with condition:
  - override with template: it's a factory method to return implementation, or invoke a function with different implementation.
  - override with base(dynamic base.html): it's a way to override supper and use it.(like inject an abstract class and inhertant from it)
- template collection.

## Principle of using site toolkit
- try to not extend from current design. Except base.html(eg. demosite2/base.html extends demosite2/base.html if most of them are similar) and some only-needed template, since all the templates can be overridable, and extending from other templatefolder will break separation of templates(mixing extend condition in code with override) .
- include only from current design.
- use "include override" macro to include cross design template.
